# EU Fines Amazon €746 Million Over General Data Protection Regulation Violations
In July 2021, the Luxembourg National Commission for Data Protection issued a 746 million euro fine to Amazon for allegedly violating the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by mishandling clients' personal data illegally. According to this data-related issue, I cited two articles that hold opposing viewpoints in this document. In my personal response, I will discuss and reflect on both standpoints to present a comprehensive analysis of this database-related problem.

## Article 1- The fine for the data breach has positive effects
In the article [Why Amazon’s £636m GDPR Fine Really Matters](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/amazon-gdpr-fine), the author Matt Burgess points out that Luxembourg’s action against Amazon "shows the potential power of GDPR" and thus it might be the most important GDPR decision issued. He employs the statement made by Estelle Massé, the global data protection lead, that "we were really waiting for one of those cases to show that the GDPR basically has teeth" to support his argument. From the perspective of protecting data privacy, I agree with the author that instead of continually sending alerts and giving advice to technology companies with data breach problems, Europe Union should give significant economic penalties. Compared to moderate alerts, a €746 million fine, a large amount of profit loss, will be more effective to force Amazon and other companies to respect GDPR and prevent employees or third parties to steal account data. 

However, facing cases of a data breach, I think GDPR still exposes cracks in how inconsistently such regulations are applied across Europe Union. As the author addresses in the article that "GDPR is a 'long-term project' and it is working to strengthen cooperation between Europe’s regulators," GDPR regulators are often underfunded and overworked, and it is usually hard to determine which data protection group should be the ‘lead authority’ in each case. Thus, before Amazon's case, technology companies can easily found flaws in GDPR and avoided the fine after the data breach. I hope the EU can improve its system to detect and regulate the case of a data breach in a much more efficient way. 

## Article 2- The fine for the data breach is unreasonble and untested
Contrary to the claims made by Matt Burgess on the issue, CNBC writer Sam Shead's article [Amazon Hit with $887 Million Fine by European Privacy Watchdog](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/07/30/amazon-hit-with-fine-by-eu-privacy-watchdog-.html) believes in Amazon spokesperson who contends that "there has been no data breach, and no customer data has been exposed to any third party", so Amason intended to appeal and disagree with the CNPD’s ruling. Because of the limited proof given by the Europe Union in Amazon's case, I also have a doubt about the details of the data breach. It may be a good idea for the EU and GDPR regulators to provide more information about the case and also have a debate with Amazon. During this process, clients and other people can check whether the decision relating to how Amazon shows customers relevant advertising relies on objective and tested interpretations of European privacy law, and whether the proposed fine is entirely out of proportion.  

Furthermore, in my opinion, Amazon's spokesperson should present evidence that they didn't participate in the data breach. Although Amazon's spokesperson proposes that "maintaining the security of our customer’s information and their trust are top priorities," people outside of the business may be seriously disappointed after the news of Amazon being fined by the EU for violations of data privacy. It's not enough for Amazon to hold some slogans, so they need to convince clients through their actions. If there is sufficient evidence to prove they are actually innocent, Amazon can regain the trust of clients and pay more attention to protecting their data in the future. Overall, we all hope Amazon and other businesses can learn from this data-related case.
